- [Instructor] The Repository Pattern is
a data access pattern that you'll see littered
all throughout the Spring framework,
and specifically the Spring Data Project.
And as I alluded to, most of Spring data
is actually based entirely on the Repository Pattern.
Spring JDBC can also be used
to create Repository actions
when you implement the Repository yourself.
RepositoryRestResource adds a RESTful web service
on top of a raw repository,
which gets into this very interesting use case
of an interface exposing an entire web service
through the use of reflection and convention of naming.
So let's talk a little bit
about the Repository Pattern itself.
First and foremost, it's important to note
that this is not a Gang of Four pattern.
In fact, it was introduced in a book by Eric Evans
called Domain-Driven Design,
and one that we use often in the distributed world,
which is where I tend to spend most of my time.
A simple operation of an entity or business object
without the knowledge of other entities,
and that's what defines how this works.
Your operations are simple,
and they're only on one object,
or one grouping of objects, a domain.
You don't cross boundaries and you don't go
into other objects as you do in a DAO pattern.
All of this is done under an abstraction layer,
and the data access operations are hidden
from the consumer of the data access code.
Now, why would we do this?
In modern computing, databases
often have become the bottleneck.
And it used to be the other way around,
that your code was slower than the database.
So you wanted to put all of your operations on the database.
And that's just not the case anymore.
By using the Repository Pattern,
you prevent data access logic
from leaking into your business logic.
I've written code before where we had two and three layers
of data access objects because we wanted to make sure
that we could span transaction boundaries
without leaking it into our code.
And it became a nightmare to handle.
In addition, this provides a layer of abstraction
to hide all of your internal operations.
So your domain may actually live in multiple databases,
or live in multiple tables,
but your consumer doesn't know
because everything is hidden behind a simple interface.
And by doing this, you can focus on single business objects
at a time and not worry about everything else.
So how would we go about creating this?
Well, in the Spring world,
you start with the Repository interface in Spring Data,
or you create your own interface using generics.
You define common data access methods
if you're rolling your own.
If you're using the interface from Spring Data,
they're already done for you.
You would just add any additional methods that you need to.
Then you apply your business object
to a Repository instance,
and leverage the data access logic under the hood.
And in the next video we're going to jump in
and show you how to do a Repository using Spring Data.